Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 166, recorded January 22nd, 2020. I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
And this episode is brought to you by DigitalOcean. We'll talk about them more later.
But do you want to get into quantum stuff or what do you got for us first?
Yeah, how about that? There were many crazy ideas in programming, right? Like
infrastructure as code or infrastructure as a service and all the cloud computing things.
And there's this really cool quote from William Gibson, the science fiction writer,
is that the future is here, it's just not evenly distributed, which is pretty cool. And I think
this thing I'm about to talk about is a little bit about making that way more even. So Amazon,
AWS, you know, the bookstore is announcing a quantum computing as a service.
Okay, we were expecting this to happen.
Yeah, we were. Well, the thing is the quantum computers are so early stage,
they're so specialized, they look more like science projects than they do any sort of computer.
They're not in square boxes. They're usually like dangling from the ceiling with like all
sorts of wires shooting out of it. Like, you know, you can't go get a quantum computer,
But there are quantum computers that can do limited amounts of computing.
And so learning to program them is something that might be a good idea, right?
Like I have no idea what programming a quantum computer is going to feel like
because it's just the conceptions.
I just haven't formed it fully in my mind.
Do you have a good sense of what that's going to be like?
- No. - Well.
- I think we're at the punch card stage still.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So this new service called Amazon Bracket from AWS is a fully managed service that allows scientists,
researchers, and developers, and people just interested in quantum computing to begin
experimenting with computers from multiple quantum hardware providers in a single place.
So there's a handful of people creating these quantum computers, and they have different
capabilities and whatnot. So you can actually select more than one provider for your quantum
quantum computer. So we all know about bits, right? Bits are 0 and 1, on, off, that sort
of thing. That's the conception in my mind that it's pretty easy for things to work.
But quantum computers use a more sophisticated representation known as a qubit or a quantum
bit. And each qubit exists in a state of 1 or 0. But because of its quantum nature, it
also in superpositions of 1 or 0, which means it can simultaneously occupy both states.
So it's basically a two-dimensional vector of complex numbers of all these different
states, which means it has way more data representation and computing power than just zero or one.
You know, it has like near infinite.
So this service is built to give people some basically hands-on experience programming
this.
So I linked to the Verge article talking about this.
I also linked to the direct announcement.
Now Brian, do you see that code section down there, that little example?
I have no idea what it's going to print.
I have no idea what it's going to print either.
But if not caring what the computational output is,
what does that remind you of?
Python.
It definitely looks like Python.
And in the announcement you can say,
"In here you can use a notebook to explore writing in this bracket service,
bracket language."
And yeah, so I don't know if this is literally Python
or is just very, very much like Python.
But if you're a Python developer, you can get into this pretty easily,
I would suspect.
- Yeah, it definitely looks like it's a notebook or something.
- Yeah, so if you want to know how quantum computers work,
if you want to play with programming them,
check this Amazon bracket thing out.
I've not checked the pricing.
It seems like it might not be that cheap,
but yeah, it still looks pretty interesting.
- I think they're really trying to make it available
to people that, in a researcher student situation,
so it's probably not terrible, but I don't know.
- Yeah, yeah, who knows, but it's definitely interesting,
and people who are interested can now go
and just fire up a quantum computer in the cloud
and with through a Jupyter notebook,
play with it, which is pretty awesome.
>> Yeah. So let's go from quantum to virtual.
(laughing)
>> Yes, let's do it.
Do it.
>> Okay. I couldn't resist, but you know,
not really that cool.
But anyway, virtual environments, right, with Python.
I know that both of us use virtual environments.
>> All the time.
>> I still have coworkers that don't,
and I know that some people still, I don't know,
there's a lot of old guides and tutorials on how to use virtual environments and they,
I really didn't know I needed this, but Brett Cannon wrote a quick and dirty guide
on how to install packages for Python and it
is mostly just basically walking people on how to use virtual environments.
I, of course, already know how to do that, but I think it's good to have something like this
available to throw to people that aren't using them yet, because it's pretty short and simple.
One of the things I love about the article is it uses the --prompt flag for creating a virtual environment,
which will make it so that your prompt variable or your prompt isn't just venv, it's something useful for you to see it.
Yeah, that is super cool. I love that recommendation about the --prompt.
And in the article, Brett shows you how to have it take the current working directory as a default, right?
So it'll automatically grab that for you, which is cool.
- I've got a little bash snippet that I use
that essentially does that in my environment.
He hints at that in Python 3.9,
there's gonna be an improvement
that instead of having some code
that looks up your current directory name,
that you can just pass in a dot for the prompt
and it will just name it that,
which I'm looking forward to that.
That's cool.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
Maybe I just want to start running 3.9 beta just for that.
- Maybe.
Have you started playing with 3.9 yet?
- No, I haven't.
- Oh, okay.
- I'm still actually, I'm still trying to decide
what version I want to use
because traditionally use Homebrew
and something went wrong with Homebrew for Python 3.8.
So if you try to install Python 3.7 from Homebrew,
sorry, Python 3 from Homebrew, you still get 3.7,
which is frustrating, but I haven't decided
that I'm wanting to break away from that just yet,
it's starting to get to the point where maybe I'll just go to 3.9.
I don't know. I just still use the installers from the Python.org site.
Yeah, I'm going to be back there too.
But yeah, this is cool and it's nice to have this.
This is real clear and concise.
And yeah, thanks Brett.
So, do you know what else is cool?
DigitalOcean is pretty cool.
DigitalOcean is awesome.
Yeah.
So, DigitalOcean is sponsoring this episode.
They have awesome infrastructure and an awesome product.
And we use them for our services.
Do you have a memory intensive workload?
Something like high performance SQL or NoSQL databases,
in-memory caches like Redis or indexes?
Some kind of large data analysis runtime?
Well, if so, you need DigitalOcean's new memory optimized droplets,
or at least you should check them out.
So check them out by going to pythonbytes.fm/digitalocean
and get a $100 credit.
And that's back. We used to be lower, but now it's 100. Yay.
Yay. Well done, DigitalOcean. Thanks for supporting the show.
Sometimes the best thing you can do, Brian, is just say no.
It's easy to say yes to everything, but when you say yes to something,
you're actually saying no to something else.
Yeah, I've heard that.
That's kind of like the whole pointing a finger and you three-point back at you
and stuff like that.
Yeah, exactly.
So this next thing I want to talk about is something that made the rounds
the last couple of weeks.
It's pretty interesting.
It's an article that sort of lays out a case against the no-code movement,
and it's entitled Say No to the No-Code Movement by Alex Hudson.
It's funny, I don't know, I might be showing my age, my gray bits in my beard or whatever,
my goatee, but he starts off by talking about 2020 is going to be the year of no-code, a
movement where you can write business logic and entire applications without having to
train a software developer.
I feel like I've heard that before, last century even.
How about you?
- Yeah, are we talking like round trip stuff,
like UML round trip things?
- Yeah, I was thinking of like Vizio
and some of these other sort of business intelligence,
draggy droppy things that were going to, you know,
quickly replace us as software developers
and we're just gonna be out of a job.
So you probably shouldn't study that
'cause either outsourcing or this no code stuff
is gonna like crush our jobs.
And I feel like software has been pretty good
over the last 20 years.
- Yeah, that's weird.
So yeah.
- So the reason I'm bothering to cover this though
is I do think it's interesting
that this is something of a trend.
And I think that Alex does a pretty good job
of laying out what some of the issues are.
So it's easy to get sucked into wanting this,
but it's also good to maybe know where like,
hey, this might make sense to try this,
this no code idea.
So examples include like Salesforce, right?
With Salesforce, you can sort of wire stuff together
to make things happen.
Other examples were Zapier were doing things.
- Yeah, maybe if this then that.
- Yeah, if this then that.
I feel like Zapier actually,
Alex gave it a pretty good vote,
and I agree as well,
because it's not so much about trying to
write software with Zapier,
it's about trying to just do integration.
I feel like no-code integration isn't terrible
if something awesome like Zapier can do it.
But basically the idea is like,
look, people want to transform business processes
into the software domain.
And they might wanna do that because change control,
like how do you change your business
and understand how it works is now a software problem.
It's easier to innovate on what makes the business distinct
'cause now it's clearly like, these are the things we do,
everyone does this, but this is our special sauce
right here.
And there's a cool quote from Satya Nadella
that says, "Every company is a software company these days."
And so there's a lot of pressure to take
maybe traditional companies and organizations
that don't have a software team or they have a very small software team that's
too busy just keeping the lights on to help everyone else with their little
issues, there's this temptation to say, okay, well, what is our no-code story?
Like, how do we get some systems that just like let people write code, you
know, Excel sort of played that role to a large degree.
So the article's good for like laying out some of the issues.
Starts out well, the first assumption is that writing text, like writing
business logic in text forms is something that everybody hates.
Right?
Outside of the software development community, right?
Like if I'm an accountant, I don't want to write text logic because, well,
you have to be accurate and things like that, right?
And if you had boxes, you could drag them together.
That might be better.
So talks about how, you know, there's, it's a simpler abstraction that's
really easy to work with, or it's simpler syntax.
And in both of those cases, you really run into the problem of, well,
you can do the simple little thing first.
Like, think of a visual--
like a flow chart, right?
Like, if you could just run a flow chart.
Well, for a really simple problem, that's fine.
But if you try to solve a real problem, you have a flow chart with, like,
1,000 boxes and lines going everywhere.
That's not going to help you.
Another example of the issues you run into is that many of the no-code
advocates are building significant systems by pulling together off-the-shelf apps and
integrating them.
This is kind of like Zapier.
Zapier, I think, used right, it's still good, but the problem is all the logic becomes implemented
as a configuration of all these external systems, and you're limited by what they can do and
what they can accept and so on.
So yeah.
He said, "Look, if there was a better way to create software than writing text, most
of us would just drop it like a hot rock."
We'd be like, "Yeah, okay, what's next?
Let's do that."
It would be great.
It's not that we love typing so much.
So I guess in conclusion, it's like, where does the no-code stuff fail in practice?
Well, you get like 80% of the way there, and then you're like,
"Well, all these edge cases make this so complicated,"
or you end up with all the little edge cases and details that is like
this little graphical whatever is so complicated that it's worse than text,
things like that.
But where it might be useful is for a little proof of concept demonstrations
and things like that.
"Hey, here's the happy path of the main thing we want to do."
I threw this together with something like Salesforce
or some other BI tool or something,
and look what we got, right?
Then you could go rewrite that with Python and Matplotlib
or whatever it is you're trying to solve.
So I thought this was an interesting take
on the whole no-code movement,
and I also thought it was interesting that this is the year
is going to be the year of no-code.
I remember hearing that in the '90s.
- Yeah, actually my first job at HP
was using visual language for measuring systems.
And it was, I think we should look at
some of the failures of the 90s,
because what happened is what's gonna happen again.
Like you said, you have systems that go 80% of the way,
but the corner cases make it so that
you still have to be an expert at this tool to do it.
So you still hire programmers,
but they only are gaining experience with this one tool
that they don't even really like,
and they can't transfer to any other job,
and that's terrible, it's not good.
Plus, visual stuff is sort of really fun
when you get started, but you quickly need a wrist brace.
Working on the mouse all day long
is really, actually fatiguing to your hands.
- That's a good point, I hadn't even thought about that,
but oh yeah, for sure.
- It was a program called VEE,
and I don't think it's even in place anymore.
It was a visual thing, and we used to joke
that if you buy the box set, it comes with a wrist brace.
So.
(laughing)
- Yeah, that's not good.
You know, this next item that you got coming up here,
I checked this out and this is some deep stuff here.
Tell us about it.
- So this isn't really a topic
that we normally kind of cover,
but it's also something that I was pleased and surprised
to see come up with a North Bay Python.
I'm gonna highlight Shaw
and his full name is Shadeed Wallace-Stepter, I think.
But he says he goes by Shaw.
He spoke at North Bay Python and we're linking to an article that is his article, but also includes a link to the video of the presentation at North Bay Python.
And it's called what I learned going from prison to Python.
And it is Python related, but the Python take comes in the end, like the last few minutes.
It is a 40 minute video, but you can even just listen to it because there's no visuals.
I'm not going to really summarize it too much other than this is an amazing story and people
need to listen to it.
He's talking about how he went from a generational poverty situation to a crime as a teen.
It's interesting that he talks about one of the reasons why he started doing some crimes.
It wasn't because he needed to, it was because he had zero control over the rest of his life
and it made him, it was something that he felt had control over.
And then that gets him to the point where his best friend like dies on his shoulder
by being shot and then he ends up in prison and spends 19 years there, 19 years of a 27
year sentence.
But this fight that he had to do to just to fight against the entire system trying to
keep him in poverty or keep him in prison, it is an incredible story for him.
But I think it also talks about how, regardless of your politics, poverty and the prison system
in our country is broken and we need to fix it.
So that's why I wanted to highlight it.
Yeah, the thing that touched me from this was, I think for the first time, maybe ever,
I understood why people would go down some of these paths.
Because people make some of these decisions and they're just so clearly a bad idea.
You know what I mean?
I'm thinking of like drug addicts for hard, hard drugs like heroin or meth or,
you know, people who are burglarizing houses and robbing, play armed robbery
and stuff and just think, man, there's got to be a better way, but listening
to a story, I really understood it.
And, you know, I didn't get all the way to the end.
So, it's awesome that Python, it sounds like helped him move beyond that,
but I, do you have the last bit of the story or are you going to give away too much?
So no, I don't think it'll give it away.
I think he ends in a very positive note on talking about the open source community.
He eventually gets into-- he goes from studying law to studying entrepreneurship
to meeting Jessica-- I'm going to get her last name wrong.
Forgot it.
Jessica McKellar?
Yeah, McKellar.
Yeah, sounds right.
Although he said he met her in a journalism setting,
but she was not very good at journalism or wasn't a journalist or something
like that.
But anyway, she's a great person.
But one of the things that people face when they come out of a prison system,
especially if they came in in a poverty situation, is they've got no skills and
no job history or things like that, or they may have no skills.
And even if they do have skills, who's going to hire them?
But the open source community is just a, everybody's welcome.
You, in coding, there's more situations in coding where I don't,
on either you can do the job.
And that equality of background of just,
it's just about whether you can get stuff done.
It isn't just about that.
We also, you have to be able to communicate
and all things like that.
But we don't really care as much
about your college pedigree or anything.
It's either you're a great coder or you're not.
And that's a cool story.
And his, even equates the open,
he was shocked by the open source community
of just working on stuff and giving it away.
But apparently, there was a program at San Quentin
that O'Reilly gave a bunch of laptops there
so that people could watch some of the O'Reilly training
videos there.
And that's how we learned Python.
So that's cool.
>> Man, super cool.
Yeah, I loved his story.
And it was really different.
So I'm happy he shared it.
And I'm happy you covered it.
Speaking of covering things, have we covered GUIs?
>> I don't think so.
We should probably cover GUIs.
>> We probably should.
You know, what I really like about our listeners
in our audience is they really help round us out.
You know what I mean, Brian?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, like I'll bring up one thing.
I'm like, oh, I heard of this one thing.
Can you guys believe this is a thing?
And they're like, and here, you know,
everyone's like, here's the seven others
and here are the trade-offs.
They're, did you know about this?
- Yeah, and I can't believe you haven't covered this already.
- Yeah, exactly.
So I've already got a bunch of stuff on Q
that has that sort of take to it.
But here's one called Quick,
a Qt5 based GUI generator for Click.
So Click is an argpars based command line interface tool or framework, I guess,
where you put decorators onto different functions and say,
these are some of the arguments, these are required, these are not required,
these are the types and so on.
And it lets you write command line interfaces.
And so, Quick will take those and naturally understand the message given to
Click or argpars and then create a GUI out of it.
No way!
Yeah, that's pretty cool, right?
So you don't hardly have to do anything other than throw like a quick.run
and give it a function or something to that effect and off it goes.
Oh, that is cool.
Yeah, I'm totally going to try this out.
Yeah, it's not super popular.
It's got like 62 stars and four contributors.
It was changed this month, so that's cool.
But just the example.
So it's a little bit old,
but I think it's an interesting take and an interesting idea.
And if it's gonna work for people,
they can definitely check it out and contribute to it.
So on.
So yeah, I think this is a nice one.
It's based or inspired, not based on,
inspired by Gui, G-O-O-E-Y,
which is also really, really nice,
but you have to be a little bit more explicit
on how it presents the UI for GUI.
You gotta say, "I want a calendar widget
"for this thing," or whatever.
But yeah, anyway, it'll even let you still run
your standard click-based CLI app the same,
but then if you throw in a --GUI,
it'll turn it into a GUI,
even if you just wanna change the command line arguments,
which is, yeah, it looks pretty nice.
- Yeah, GUI, it's an interesting function call.
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, so thank you, Ricky Tichy,
for sending this along and recommending it.
- That's a good one.
- Yeah, thanks.
Okay, we're not to jokes yet,
but I have kind of a funny one coming up.
So it's interesting.
So there's a couple articles, I think it's in a series,
falsehoods programmers believe about time.
- And wait, what is the title of the blog?
Infinite Undo.
- Oh really?
- Yeah, yeah, it's all, like it all fits together.
I love it.
Sorry, keep going, there's a second follow on one.
- Must be a VI person.
More falsehood programs believe about time wisdom from the crowd edition.
So I'm sorry, I can't find your name on the blog, but wrote this article about
falsehoods.
The interesting thing is very few of them have links to tell you why they're
false, but these are all assumptions that are wrong.
I mean, it starts with, there's always 24 hours in a day and you know, there
are things that we just sort of know are kind of wrong sometimes.
Like when we change the time, it's different.
months of either 30 or 31, a week begins and ends on the same month.
And I think these are, he's coming from the standpoint that he's debugged and
tested code that had these weird assumptions in them that broke.
And then it gets into some stuff that I, I'm going to highlight just a handful,
but there's a whole bunch.
A system clock will always be set to the correct local time.
And if that's not true, well, it'll be set to a time that's not wildly different
from the correct local time.
And if that's not true, well, at least it will be always have a consistent offset
in the number of seconds.
And yeah, no, that's not true either.
I've been bit by this where we had systems under test be not even on the same day.
It has the following other one.
Let's see.
The day before Saturday is always Friday.
I had to look this one up because I'm like, isn't it, isn't Friday always before Saturday?
All right.
What's the deal there?
Samoa decided to change which part of their, the international time zone they were on so that they were the same day as
Australia.
And that gap swapped it like it swapped on Saturday, but it
happened in the middle of week or something like that.
Yeah.
It happened like Thursday night and then the next second it was Saturday morning.
So they skipped Friday once.
That's some serious daylight savings action going on there.
Okay.
And then the number 81, the last one on the second one is, I think
it's just thrown in as a joke.
I hope the software will never run on a spaceship that is orbiting a black hole.
Do we have spaceships that are black holes?
Not yet.
Yeah.
But you're going to have legacy code.
You're going to have the black hole bug that you've got to go back and fix.
Yeah.
And then one I didn't highlight was that there's not an end to time.
I didn't put a link in for this.
But did you know that if you have a 32-bit time counter,
it's probably going to break in 2038 or something like that?
Oh, wow.
Think of all the consulting opportunities.
I know.
It's like Y2K all over again.
Exactly.
Yeah, that's interesting.
I mean, real time obviously, we think, doesn't stop.
Probably won't stop for us.
But yeah, computer time, computer time,
it's a whole different deal.
Yeah, this is really interesting.
And yeah, like you highlighted a few of the 81,
and then that doesn't even touch on the more falsehoods.
Pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- I get a little nervous every time I get
anywhere near a time zone.
So, with code.
- Yeah, I always use a time zone package,
or a time package to deal with that for me,
because I know I'm gonna get it wrong.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So I must have forgotten,
'cause I feel like last time we,
a couple weeks ago, we did cover Remy,
which is a GUI framework.
- Yeah.
- Right, and so Remy-- - Oh yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, I remember that, you brought that up.
Remy's cool, and it lets you write Python code
that then gets turned into something
that has an HTML representation.
But then you can hook events from HTML
back into your Python code, right?
It's kind of like Electron.js,
but swap out the JS for Python, right?
>> Yeah. >> Well, we got a message from the creator,
David, and he said, hey, thanks so much for covering that.
You threw out that, hey, it would be awesome if this had an editor or
something like that.
So yeah, if you just look at /editor in the repo, yeah,
there's a drag and drop WYSIWYG editor for this UI.
>> That's so cool.
I haven't tried it yet, but it's neat.
>> Yeah, it looks really cool.
It's pretty much like what you would expect.
You've got all the widgets you can drag and drop in there
and size them and set their colors
and set all their CSS properties
and then also wire up button clicks to existing functions
or JavaScript events to existing functions,
things like that.
- You can totally waste an entire afternoon
and look like you're working.
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, here's some of the no-code stuff that is good.
So it's got a little walkthrough example
of creating a Hello World button clicker type of GUI app,
But yeah, it actually looks pretty killer.
- I don't want to diss people that actually work
in the world of creating really good user interfaces,
that, you know, and that's needed, and I applaud them.
But there's a lot of us nerds that just need
some kind of GUI that just sort of works
and that's good enough.
- Yep, all right, Brian, I've queued up a joke,
a visual joke that we'll have to describe through here.
And because this is about testing,
I'm gonna let you take it.
It's really simple, but it's quite funny.
- I actually peeked at this before.
We're gonna link to a Twitter post
that somebody did of this little video.
Says two unit tests, zero integration tests.
And I guess I gotta say, I'm a huge fan of these
like unit test pass, integration test fail things.
So send them my way if you find them.
This one's hilarious.
- Yeah, so let me describe it a little bit.
I'll set the stage.
There's one of these like super powerful hand dryers,
and there's a trash can,
And it's not like a trash bin that you move around.
It's like a fix to the wall, right?
- Yeah. - Okay, go ahead.
- And then right next to it,
it's a place where you can grab napkin,
or your paper towels also to dry your hands.
But they put like a, one of those,
the hand dryers that blows down
and it turns on with motion.
And so as soon as you throw away a paper towel,
the dryer blows all the paper towels out of the garbage.
- It's super strong.
Not just the one you tried to put in the garbage,
but every paper towel that was previously in the garbage
is now blasted around.
Yeah, two unit tests, zero garbage tests.
- Yeah, the creative people that got the garbage liner
to stay in there in the first place.
So anyway, it's hilarious.
- Yeah, like a little rub, a little syrup
or something sticky on there to keep that thing in place.
- Yeah.
- That's pretty funny.
- This reminds me of, I was at a company
where we switched from actual plants around the office
to plastic plants, but nobody canceled the watering service.
And so the watering service just kept going around
and watering all the plastic plants once a month,
or once a week, or whenever they did that.
So, anyway.
- Yeah, that probably didn't turn out well
after they filled up.
(laughing)
- I don't know.
- That's awesome. - It's just weird.
All right, well, thanks.
Thanks, Michael.
- You bet, thanks for being here as always.
It was fun.
Bye, everyone. - Bye.
Thank you for listening to Python Bytes.
Follow the show on Twitter @pythonbytes.
That's Python Bytes, as in B-Y-T-E-S.
And get the full show notes at pythonbytes.fm.
If you have a news item you want featured,
just visit pythonbytes.fm and send it our way.
We're always on the lookout for sharing something cool.
This is Brian Okken,
and on behalf of myself and Michael Kennedy,
thank you for listening and sharing this podcast
with your friends and colleagues.